What are the benefits of Retrieval-Augmented Generation?
RAG technology brings several benefits to an organization's generative AI efforts.

Cost-effective implementation
Chatbot development typically begins using a foundation model. Foundation models (FMs) are API-accessible LLMs trained on a broad spectrum of generalized and unlabeled data. The computational and financial costs of retraining FMs for organization or domain-specific information are high. RAG is a more cost-effective approach to introducing new data to the LLM. It makes generative artificial intelligence (generative AI) technology more broadly accessible and usable.

Current information
Even if the original training data sources for an LLM are suitable for your needs, it is challenging to maintain relevancy. RAG allows developers to provide the latest research, statistics, or news to the generative models. They can use RAG to connect the LLM directly to live social media feeds, news sites, or other frequently-updated information sources. The LLM can then provide the latest information to the users.

Enhanced user trust
RAG allows the LLM to present accurate information with source attribution. The output can include citations or references to sources. Users can also look up source documents themselves if they require further clarification or more detail. This can increase trust and confidence in your generative AI solution.

More developer control
With RAG, developers can test and improve their chat applications more efficiently. They can control and change the LLM's information sources to adapt to changing requirements or cross-functional usage. Developers can also restrict sensitive information retrieval to different authorization levels and ensure the LLM generates appropriate responses. In addition, they can also troubleshoot and make fixes if the LLM references incorrect information sources for specific questions. Organizations can implement generative AI technology more confidently for a broader range of applications.
